<pre>
  BIP: unassigned
  Layer: Peer Services
  Title: Non-confirming block signalling
  Author: Tomas van der Wansem <tomas@bitcrust.org>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2017-05-05
  License: PD
</pre>

== Abstract ==

This BIP describes a standard method for publishing blocks that do not confirm validity
of the previous block. 

== Motivation ==

Miners today use a method commonly known as SPV-mining. They start mining on top of a 
block as soon as they receive the headers, before they downloaded or verified the 
transactions. This not only increases their own profit but also helps against 
decentralization as it diminishes the advantage of miners with high resources.

The drawback is that it decreases the security of the network, as users will perceive
such a block as a confirmation of the validity of the previous block.

To counter this drawback, I propose a way for miners to flag non-confirming blocks.

== Specification ==

We define bit 29 of the 32-bits little endian version field in the block header as 
the non-confirming bit.

Any block that is published without fully verifying the previous block should set
the non-confirming bit.

=== Comments ===

An optimal miner will:

* As soon a blockheader is downloaded, mine upon with only a coinbase and the
non-confirming bit set.
* As soon as all TXIDs are known, mine upon it with a mempool selection 
and the non-confirming bit set.
* As soon as all transactions are fully verified, mine upon it with a mempool selection
 and the non-confirming bit cleared.

Any software relying on transaction security should not count blocks with the
non-confirming bit set as confirmations, unless blocks are received upon it
which have the non-confirming bit cleared.

This proposals removes the 29th softfork-version as defined in BIP 9.

==Copyright==
This document is placed in the public domain.

