<pre>
  BIP: UtxoCommitment version 0
  Title: Bucketed Utxo Commitment
  Author: Tomas van der Wansem <tomas@bitcrust.org>
  Created: 2018-05-31
  License: PD
</pre>

== Abstract ==

This BIP describes the construction of a 32-byte hash that is uniquely defined for a UTXO set, that is, the set of all 
unspent transaction outputs that exist at a certain block in the blockchain. It also includes a recommendation for its 
inclusion in blocks.

The recommended UTXO commitment is considered version 0. It is recommended to be included but is not verified as part
of the block validation rules and is therefore purely informational.

== Motivation ==

Currently full nodes need to download all historical blocks in order to construct the current UTXO state. The UTXO state 
is needed in order to verify incoming transactions. This proposal works towards a model where new full nodes can download
only the UTXO state, and verify its correctness against recent blocks.

The changes required to enable fast syncing can be divided in 4 stages:

# Maintain and include an informational UTXO commitment in the coinbase.
# Implement utxo/getutxo P2P messages to allow transfer of UTXO subsets
# Verify the UTXO commitment as part of the block validation rules.
# Implement a fast-syncing bootstrap method.

This specification covers the first step.


== Specification ==

We define the UTXO set of a block X, as the set of all transaction outputs that are unspent ''before'' processing of 
block X and for which

* the redeemScript of the output is at most 10000 bytes.
* the first byte of the redeemScript is not 0x80 (OP_RETURN).

The serialized UTXO set is the set of byte sequences constructed by serializing each output of the UTXO set as:

{|class="wikitable"
! Field Size !! Description !! Data type !! Comments
|-
| 32 || txid || char[32] || The id of the transaction
|-
| 4 || index || uint32_t || The index of the output within the transaction
|-
| 4 || height, is_coinbase || VARINT || The least significant bit is set if this is a coinbase output. The other 31 bits represent the height
|-
| 8 || value || int64_t || The amount in satoshi
|-
| 4 || pk_script_len || VARINT || The size in bytes of pk_script
|-
| ? || pk_script || uchar[] || The Bitcoin script that defines the conditions to claim this output.
|}

Note that the serialization is not compressed, but compression can be used in transferring UTXO sets and proofs.

The UTXO commitment for block X ECMH commitment of the serialized UTXO set as defined in [1].

Block X ''contains a UTXO commitment version 0'' if its coinbase transaction has an output whose redeemScript consists of the 38 bytes

* 0x6a (OP_RETURN)
* 0x24 (OP_PUSHDATA36)
* 0x55 0x54 0x58 0x30 (MAGIC)
* 32 byte hash

The UTXO commitment is a valid UTXO commitment version 0 if the hash equals the UTXO commitment for the block. If a block 
contains an invalid UTXO commitment it should still be accepted, although the implementation may issue appropriate warnings.

==References==

[1] https://github.com/tomasvdw/bips/ecmh.mediawiki

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.

