=FAQ - MalFix=

* spec: https://github.com/tomasvdw/bips/blob/master/malleability-fix.mediawiki
* code: https://github.com/Bitcoin-ABC/bitcoin-abc/pull/83

==What is BIP-MalFix?==

BIP-MalFix is a Bitcoin (Cash) improvement proposal for a small breaking change
that allows creating non-malleable transactions

==How does it work?==

Currently the inputs of a transaction point the transaction they are spending
using their TXID which is the full hash of the transaction. 

With MalFix, this field is replaced by a new "UTXID" field which contains (for 
new v3 transactions) the hash of the transaction without its input scripts. 

That way, even if the signature of an off-chain transaction is malleated, 
every dependent transaction is still valid.

==How does this compare to SegWit?==

===Security===

Both SegWit and MalFix introduce a new non-malleable reference to a
transaction. With MalFix, this is only used in the 'prev_tx_out' field of 
an input. In SegWit this replaces the identifier using in the merkle tree
and in the P2P protocol.

The drawback of the SegWit solution is that it reduces long term security,
as signatures are no longer needed to securely update the UTXO-set. 

===Scope===

MalFix aims to fix only malleability; a one step at the time approach that
may be better suited in a consensus network. SegWit fixes several 
(not uncontroversial) things on the side.

===Impact===

BIP-MalFix is a minimal change, but a change that effects every wallet, as 
they need to understand the new "utxo" field in order to be able to
spent v3 transactions.

SegWit is a much more complicated change, which aims to easy the upgrade path
as it doesn't force any other software to upgrade.

In short; MalFix minimizes the impact on the base layer, whereas SegWit 
minimized the complications of the update.

==Do we need a malleability fix?==

Tricky question. As a change minimalist I am not really in favour of fixing 
malleability. It helps only the specific case of an chain multisig transaction
with off chain dependent transactions. Although this may aid for example micropayment networks, many workarounds are possible wihtout changing the 
base layer.

But the decision isn't mine or solely technical. There is clearly a lot
of demand for fixing malleability, not in the least because of the hype and
expections of the Lightning Network, a micropayment implementation which
happens to depend on it.

In the end, with every change it's up to the market. If there is enough 
demand among users, miners will want the change to increase the value
of their minted coins. And if miners want the change, implementors can
choose to Merge this Pull Request and offer it to gain market share.

If this results in 95% of the miners signalling, the change will be activated.

